Hey everyone, thanks for dropping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about the
Bitcoin MVRV Z-score. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on Into The
Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
In this video, we're going to be
discussing the MVRV Z-score. And the the
MVRV Z-score is simply calculated by
taking the market cap of Bitcoin minus
the realized cap, and then dividing that
by the standard deviation of the market
cap.
One of the things I like about this
indicator is that it I mean, it's not
always the best at like telling you
exactly where the top's going to be. If
you look at the past several cycles like
in 2013, you can see it went all the way
up to
like
nearly 10, around 10
that the MVRV Z-score. And then in 2021,
it it actually topped out at around like
seven or so. And um and then last cycle,
it it barely went up, right? It topped
out at around like three, which as we've
said is kind of similar to the 2019
style top, right? That apathetic top.
But what I like about the MVRV Z-score
is that
when it resets,
which it does approximately every four
years,
it is
you know, it tends to be a a fairly
attractive accumulation zone. So, after
the bull market that Bitcoin had in
2011,
the MVRV Z-score reset and it went below
zero. Okay, you can see it went below
zero, and while it was below zero,
that's where, you know, the the market
reset. Now, look at it in 2015. You can
see in 2015, the MVRV Z-score went
went below zero uh in October, and then
it went a little bit below that again in
January, stayed below it for
a good part of 2015.
And then it went up. And then you look
back and you're like, all right, well,
we didn't go below zero. That was a
fairly attractive time to accumulate
Bitcoin. And then in 2018, you can see
it it fell below zero. And that ended up
being a fairly attractive spot to
accumulate Bitcoin. It also went below
zero in 2020 during the pandemic.
And then again in 2022,
the NVRV Z-Score went below zero in the
summer, right? So, it was in the
summertime. And then it basically stayed
mostly below zero
until essentially 2023.
And then finally, where does that leave
us today?
Well, to give you an idea of where it is
today and where it was previously, it
topped out, you know, between three and
four. Right now,
it's at around 0.35.
So, it's actually getting relatively
close to that zero mark. And just
remember,
below zero has historically been a
fairly attractive time to accumulate
Bitcoin. The other thing I'll I'll
remind people of as well is with with
Bitcoin
and the on-chain indicators, it is
highly unlikely unless you get a repeat
of the pandemic, which is not really
base case here, but it's highly unlikely
that you would go to these levels and
then only stay there for a day.
Okay? If you look in 2022,
Bitcoin stayed below the NVRV Z-Score
for the most part between June and 6
months later, January. Now, it did pop
above it for a few weeks here and there,
but for the most part, it was down there
for a while.
That was in 2022.
In 2018, we were below the we were below
zero essentially from November
of 2018 until April of 2019. So, you're
talking about like 5 months,
approximately. And then in the cycle
before that, we were basically below it
from late 2014
until late 2015, about a year. So, what
it shows is that
you know, a lot of times the
investments, the best investments that
you make are the quiet investments. Like
the the the the things that you're
buying when people just don't care about
it and it it just ignored.
And that's why I say accumulating
Bitcoin
in the second half of mid-term years
often works out. Now, again, you know,
if you started accumulating at the very
beginning of the second half of mid-term
years previously, then, you know, you
kind of hit or miss on whether the NVRVZ
score had fully reset.
But, a couple of years later, none of
that mattered anyways. So, I I think
this is one of those indicators. It's
just another one to have in your toolkit
and to keep an eye on it. And and say,
"You know what? This thing historically
resets and and from those reset levels,
it then begins a a new bull market,
which again could very well line up with
that four-year cycle." We're going to
wrap it up there. We're going to keep
this video short and sweet. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs-up,
and also check out the sale on ITC
Premium at intothecryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.